good evening in the last hour Hamas
leaders have said they'll agree to a
ceasefire proposal put forward by Egypt
and kataar in the seven-month-old war
with Israel it's understood the terms
could include the release of 33 hostages
held since the October the 7th attacks
last year there has been no immediate
response so far from Israel but if there
is an agreement it would be the first
pause in the fighting since a week-long
truce last November well Jeremy Bowen is
here with me in the studio um this is a
turnup for the books literally in the
last hour and the mood music getting
into that was not good no it was very
Bleak because the Israelis of course
gave those warnings this morning to
people in Rafa to move the offensive was
about to happen or rather a smaller
scale version of it so I've been talking
to people close to the talks normally
reliable diplomatic sources um and what
I've been told is
that they've agreed to release 33
Israeli hostages a 40-day ceasefire
there would be freedom of movement for
people in Gaza to return to the north uh
which has not been allowed up to now and
then there'd be a second phase which is
known as restoring sustainable calm now
my information is that that was language
proposed by the Americans back in
February rejected by the Israelis but um
accepted by them reportedly I'm told by
these sources on the 28th of April that
they agreed to it um and that American
language is basically a creative way of
talking about a a long-term cease fire
because Israel didn't want to use that
sort of language so you know my source
said everyone's read was that Netanyahu
was hoping Hamas wouldn't take it we'll
have to see what he does now the ball is
in his court Hamas has called their
Bluff uh the Israelis themselves uh
there have been some reports on news
agencies saying that that this is a
bruised by himass they they're looking
into it maybe it's not quite what they
agreed to but clearly things are
happening the head of the CIA has been
talking all day to the Kateri prime
minister in Doha their Capital Biden
will speak to Netanyahu later and the
King of Jordan is at the white house
right now and he of course has been a
big critic of the war indeed okay Jeremy
thank you our International edit to
there let's go straight to Jerusalem and
Frank Gardner is standing by um any word
yet from the Israelis on this
development
Frank no uh not so far an unnamed
official has indicated that these
softened terms as they put it are not
going to be acceptable to the Israeli
government so the mood music here in
Israel is not particularly optimistic I
have to say the Israeli media have said
that the terms have altered in some way
um whatever Hamas has agreed to even if
it is still the same deal that was on
the table has still got to be agreed to
by the Israeli government and signed off
now there is mounting pressure on prime
minister Netanyahu here in Israel by the
families of the hostages saying do a
deal because your military operation in
Gaza isn't getting our loved ones out
and those voices are getting louder and
louder I drive every night past these
protesters who are desperate to get
their hostages out there's still 90 plus
hostages thought to still be alive in
Gaza and they are of course the big
bargaining chip for Hamas they're not
going to give that up unless they can be
assured that this war is going to end
all right Frank thank you for that front
Gardener there live in Jerusalem